the workshop of the Central Texas
College Board please as is my custom
when I pray in public I offer to
everyone who's present of whatever your
faith base may be you use this time to
honor the one that you believe is the
authority spiritually in your life
father I thank you for the relationship
that we have in a world that requires
Faith thank you for allowing us to come
before you request Westing of you grace
mercy peace and wisdom bless us as we
meet together today I pray in Jesus name
amen amen
amen
Meed to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which it
stands one nation under God indivisible
with liberty and justice for
all please follow me in honor the Texas
flag the Texas flag I pledge alance to
be Texas one State under God one
individ thank you
jent first item of business is
opportunity for members of the public to
speak to the board anyone here wishing
for that
opportunity seeing none hearing none we
move to the next item which is the old
of office for our chief of police Dr
Carter would you like to introduce Chief
yes I actually have a a pretty lengthy
introduction so walk
slow uh Chief Carrie Ellis has over 30
years of experience in law enforcement
during 21 years of distinguished service
with the city of Corinth Chief Ellis
served as patrol officer school resource
officer criminal investigator Corporal
and lieutenant
less than one year after retiring from
the Corinth police department the city
of Willow Park City Council confirmed
Chief Ellis as the first female chief of
police prior to being appointed chief of
police at Central Texas College Chief
Ellis implemented numerous improvements
for the agency she led and served
including a competitive hiring
promotional process additional internal
controls to facilitate improve
performance receipt of law enforcement
officer standards and education funds
for officer training
and participation in the federal
bulletproof vest partnership that is not
all inclusive just a few highlights
Chief Ellis earned a bachelor's degree
from Midwestern State University and a
master of public administration from the
University of Texas at Arlington she has
also completed 30 hours toward a PhD in
criminal justice Chief Ellis is a
graduate of the institute for Law
Enforcement Administration School of
police supervision she is also a
graduate of the bill Blackwood
leadership command College I would also
like to point out that her uh she
graduated from a police academy at a
community
college she is a member of the Central
Texas area Chiefs of police and
Sheriff's Association the Texas police
Chiefs Association and the International
Association of chiefs of police chief
Ellis currently serves as the second
vice president of the Texas police
Chiefs Association and is a member of
the police Administration committee for
The Intern National Association of
chiefs of police during law enforcement
day at the capital CTC received a shout
out because she was there
[Laughter]
Chief if you repeat these words after me
starting with I and your name
sir I uh Carrie Ellis do solemnly swear
do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully
execute the duties of the office that I
will Faithfully execute the duties of
the office of police
chief and will to the best of my ability
Preserve
and will to the best of my ability
preserve protect and defend and defend
the Constitution and laws of the United
States the Constitution and laws of the
United States and of this state and of
the state so help me God so help me God
God bless you thank you
[Applause]
thank so first off thank you to um Dr
Carter U for giving me this opportunity
and thank you to the board uh for
letting me say hello and interact with
you during our our luncheon earlier that
was I enjoyed that very much the relaxed
setting but also I'd like to thank you
for the opportunity to lead the men and
women of the Central Texas College
Police Department uh what I have seen so
far from that small group of folks that
we have right now is
pride honor determination and a
willingness to make sure that this
campus is safe and they should be
applauded for their efforts as well well
uh having two people come back out of
retirement just to make sure that that
operation is is running is u a testament
to the character of those individuals
and of this organization so I applaud
you for for the people that you have in
place here that's that is commendable so
I'm free to answer any questions that
you have after the meeting where I come
from where I've been who I am uh but for
now I'll say thank you I appreciate it
thank you thank
[Applause]
you now it's time for the Chancellor's
update before cavazo legislative tour
day I shared with you all that the uh
the biannual visit from the capitol to
Fort Cavazos uh the visit started on our
campus so we had Senator Flores
representative Buckley and
representative hickin along with some of
their staff members and a couple of
other legislators from other areas uh
along with some community members that
were invited by the chamber to
participate uh we began the day with uh
an over greetings from the legislators
of course and then I was given the
opportunity to provide an overview of
Central Texas College and our
legislative priorities as outlined
through the Texas Association of
community colleges so that went well and
then we traveled over to Fort Cavazos uh
to hear an initial briefing from
Lieutenant General Kevin Abal on Three
core and their mission so that was
really good the um the the group then
went to uh they broke out into sessions
uh where they worked with well not
worked but they observed and interacted
with the soldiers to learn what it is
that they do uh to maintain military
Readiness and went through some
simulators and that sort of thing so uh
overall they had a really great day uh
with some of the feedback that that we
heard
oh
sorry next item Community College day uh
we have a couple of students here with
us I'll call them up shortly uh so on
Monday Monday or Tuesday my days are get
mixed up February 3rd we took seven
Central Texas college students who
partic to the capital who participated
in the biannual Community College day at
the Capitol which is hosted by the Texas
Association of community colleges uh I
was so proud of our students they joined
800 plus other students on the south
steps of the capital and they rallied as
they advocated for themselves they
listened to a couple of speakers then
they rushed the building to to get to
those legislative offices and have their
voices heard uh they did an amazing job
they represented this
in we uh we have a we have a press
release piece that's on our website and
that we've sh so maybe we'll see that in
the media but for now I would like for
Shahid rasul and Desiree Boston to come
forward and just share a little bit with
you about their experience that
day good afternoon you guys I'm desire
Boston I major in Psychology here at CTC
and I am a team member of met impact
chapter here at
CTC good afternoon ladies and gentlemen
I'm Shah Ras the VP of social media
foret impact thank you so much for this
opportunity and I'm glad to get to speak
with you
guys when we were invited to uh the
capital for Community College
day when we were invited to the capital
for Community College day um I myself
got to have a better understanding of
what the um annual event was and it was
basically to advocate for community
college students who could not advocate
for themselves with the problems that we
have to
endure the problem that um I addressed
within the capital was the pipeline
between twoyear community colleges and
for year universities with transfer
credits um it's extremely important
because we do a lot of work within the
community college and it just seems
unfair that our credits get lost and
it's like the Streamline is not very
seamless as it should
be yes yes and as I mentioned my major
is psychology so I was advocating for
mental health um I basically stated how
many community colleges are lacking
funding in the mental health system and
um it's 2025 a lot of our priorities are
mental health people are taking mental
health days off and that I needed to
basically highlight on that um I let a
lot of the uh state representatives and
the Senators and you know their
colleagues see that if we invest in
mental health right now there will be
higher graduation rates and with that
the workforce in Texas will be more
productive and there will be a better a
positive outcome with all of that thank
you guys thank you thank you
you aren't they
amazing at this time Dr Garrett will
come forward and give us an enrollment
update good
afternoon excuse me um as of census
which was January 29th we do we did end
up with a 10% overall increase in our
spring reportable enrollments this year
so I was really really pleased that that
we still we stayed up from what I
reported we went down a little bit but
close to what I reported last time we
were here um we have
8,391 unduplicated students um as a
student head count for for the spring um
that is actually 465 more students than
spring of last year it's good news
any questions anyone
questions thank you ma'am Dr Garrett can
you stay right there oh
okay so the national uh Center for
inquiry and Innovation uh couple of well
actually three years ago U stood up its
first Cort or rural Pathways um guided
Pathways for project for community
colleges and uh
that first three-year period just ended
and so they were in phase two you're
gonna have to jump in and help me phase
two so we learned about uh we learned
about this project a couple of months
ago and we didn't know uh we didn't know
much about it but we knew that we wanted
to leverage the resources the subject
matter experts the tools that were being
provided through this program to advance
our work particularly in the service
area the service area is uh it it's not
been the liked it but it's been
difficult to serve uh simply because
resources have been short and so as we
look to improve our processes and the
things that we do to better serve uh
that area uh we need some support we
need some support and so this will
accelerate the work that we need to do
uh the process I'll let Dr Garrett talk
about the process but we were we were
extremely excited uh I'll let her share
the good news in terms of how we were
selected and where our first trip is
where we're going yeah um it it was
we're very very excited that we were
selected um we very quickly we had to
pull together a lot of data and a lot of
information to um submit our application
for this the rural Pathways project it
builds on what we're doing with Texas
Pathways already but it helps us focus
on the our rural areas Texas Pathways um
really focuses on full-time in college
at the main campus and so this this
opportunity helps us
take that information and additional
knowledge research and knowledge from
other institutions that have already
gone through this and have helped to
develop their rural areas and apply it
to our um service area and so we're so
excited to be able to take that
information from them and help us
because we we know we need to improve
there it's a continuous Improvement and
by having the opportunity to to work
with these people that not only have
done the research but have helped other
schools I'm just I'm really really I
guess tickled about it and um we our
first trip is um over spring break to uh
New Orleans um and what's good about
this program is is they pay for it's
part of this this grant they pay for the
hotel and all our meals while we're
there except for dinner and um um we
just have to get there with our team and
we've got a team of six of us eight
eight of us going and uh we're excited
about that it's a three-year program
it's going to take us um you know three
years working through and improvements
but we've been doing Texas Pathways now
for eight years and we're continuously
improving through that as well so um the
it's going to provide a way to reduce
the barriers that our students in the um
rural areas experience to Student
Success and that's all what we need and
it all aligns with our strategic plan
for Student Success Priority One good
Dr Garett I I was thinking of Texas
Pathways when I said community colleges
but I believe this is colleges and
universities correct I'm sorry what I
said I was thinking of Texas Pathways
when I said community colleges but this
is colleges and universities I I'm not
sure I I think you're right I I'm going
back in my I think there are
universities and Poes the the way this
process works is the first the first
group of students there were 50 I mean
colleges excuse me there were 15
colleges and when they uh initiated the
application process across the mind you
these are schools Across the Nation that
applied for this program and as Dr
Garrett said we were able to pull some
things together pretty quickly and we
landed in the final 19 a group of 19 who
were the finalists from across the
country and then we uh we were we sat
down and went through an interview
process with uh with
NCI and it was it was awesome uh Dr
Garrett Dr clunis myself Dr oser um we
interviewed with them we shared with
them the reason we we believe that we
would be a fit for this project um
because on the surface you know on the
surface it looks like we've uh sered
kisd and CCISD only and those you
wouldn't call those rural communities
but what we did was we explained to them
our 10,000 square mile service area that
deserved the same opportunities those
students in those areas and those
communities deserve the same opportunity
of economic Mobility as those here in
our taxing district and so they were
very intrigued uh uh by our our
situation in that regard but also the
fact that we sit across the street from
Fort cavazo so um we were selected and
we are excited about that yeah one of
the other things is it's not just us
with our there we had to involve key
stakeholders and um they will continue
to be involved throughout the three-year
process and one of one of the three
things that they list as a as a outcome
is to increase the economic
opportunities in those areas not just
education but how we can increase the
economic opportunities for the students
and for the businesses and and the in
those areas so our supporters for this
project because we had to include local
supporters were of course the workforce
for Cavazos the school districts the
university and business owners so it uh
the support was huge and we appreciate
that
anyone have questions about this
report how soon do they expect to having
G granted us the the opportunity to
participate how soon are are um results
expect it we don't know a lot of that
yet we we we we'll go to our first big
meeting um like I said over spring break
in New Orleans we'll have a little bit
better uh idea of the timeline and the
work that we'll be doing over that that
time period and usually you take you
know that they have a specific like with
Texas Pathways you're focused on a
specific area and you analyze the data
and you look for what you can do moving
forward and you start working on those
and each each session adds more and more
objectives to it so I look forward to
coming back and letting you know what
we've learned at each one thank you
anyone else thank you
ma'am okay legislative update uh on the
Federal level on the on the federal
front just lots of discussion lots of
changes not sure what's uh what's U
what's sticking just yet I guess I
should say uh but one of our primary
concerns and what we're focusing on is
the impact of these changes on pel and
and funding for our students that's huge
so we'll we'll continue to track that um
because um they're called calling us and
they want to
know um
State uh bills continue to be filed as
you as you probably are aware house
committee assignments were just made
last week I believe Miss bricks and uh
so they've not begun their work um
because they just receiv received their
assignments but uh right now the the two
bills that I think we that are notable
are sen House Bill one and Senate bill
one
uh those are the general Appropriations
bills and it's interesting that for the
community colleges uh the line item for
funding is identical across both bills
now I don't know if that will remain
throughout the session but for now uh
they they are identical there was about
a 4% increase in the uh the proposed uh
Appropriations for community colleges
over last year we've um we've performed
I think better collectively better than
expected so and the governor is uh very
committed to supporting community
colleges and the the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating boards ask for
us um and that's all I have do you want
to add anything
anything M Havens you have a report
about the election process uh next week
I'll bring the uh contracts for approval
with for early voting and election day
uh with the city of the city of Parker
Heights and kisd election day will be
May the 3 um and we'll have noan Bill
set up at Parker Heights has led us hold
a prec sington Parker Heights uh rec
center and coral County uh working in
conjunction with K CCISD will be at the
school on sunny
lane anyone
questions thank you
man' now always put the chief back to
work
racial racial profiling
report yes sir good afternoon
again I believe you provided with the
details from the racial profiling report
for the year
2024 uh just a quick um highlight of the
report the report includes data for 19
motor vehicle stops uh of those stops 13
warnings were issued written warnings
six citations there was only one search
which was a consent to search um and 68%
of all 68% of those 19 stops resulted in
written warnings um as I mentioned
earlier uh before the meeting one of the
things that we want to do is pursue
Texas Police Chief's best
practices uh and so as you as we move
forward and you see this report again
next year some of the things will change
uh to include new policy um and
hopefully some body cam
data questions anyone
out of curiosity your report said you
had one stop on a county
road where what is a county road that we
have in our district here I mean where
was that taking place I would have to
pull that particular stop to gather that
to see where that roadway was I don't
recall exactly I don't recall a County
Road within our jurisdiction here so
that's why I'm asking I don't know where
it was sure would like to know though I
can certainly find that uh CU I and I
did go through all of the citations and
written warnings that were issued for
all of last year just to make sure that
they were allocated appropriately on the
on the spread sheet it's all done
manually so um but I'll certainly find
that thank you for you anyone else any
other
questions thank you yes sir thank
you Dr CR s there she is
oh I'm sorry I'm skipped over Dr Rose I
apologize that's I didn't see her here
that's why I thought maybe she wasn't G
okay pardon me all right we take you
well good afternoon members of the board
um I'm here to share with you all a uh
National initiative that CTC would like
to join um and we're having we have the
opportunity to join this uh because of a
grant that we've received um that's
going to support uh the funding for it
but I'm going to go over a little bit
about what it is um it's called the
caring campus program and it's
coordinated by I'm going to read this
institute for evidence-based change
that's a lot of words but let me break
it down for you the caring campus
initiative is basically um aimed at
building student retention connection a
sense of belonging um and this
completely aligns with our mission as
you know that particularly with priority
number one uh enhanced Student Success
and um priority number three continuous
assessment Improvement of operations and
services now what this is um it it
pretty much aligns with our work with
Texas Pathways like what Dr Carter and
Dr Garrett were talking about earlier
this completely aligns with our work
with Texas Pathways as well and what's
going to happen is we're going to be
given uh a coach that's going to work
with us um for over about a year across
20 20 sessions with our faculty and our
staff um and what they're working with
us on is is getting us to agree to
certain commitments about student
retention uh a sense of belonging and
all of these things that are really hard
uh to to to put your arms around you
know it's easy to talk about Student
Success but putting it into practice is
a harder thing um and so the coach is
going to work with these the two
distinct populations to uh to get their
commitments for this and then to put
plans in action so the timeline is going
to be uh we would love for this spring
to start working with leadership as well
as the staff and to have all of their
work completed um this spring um and we
will begin the research for the faculty
The Faculty will then take on their part
for this initiative in the fall with the
idea of completing all of our work um
early spring
2026 um and this is aligns with this
grant that we've received um because the
completion of the grant is August of
26 um so it's really I I think it's an
incredible opportunity that we've been
given uh the hope is that we can scale
all of this work work within two
semesters um and so really have a
concrete plan in terms of um really
creating this sense of belonging and
this connection for students um and you
know how important that is with House
Bill 8 um and the the performance-based
funding and we have to be about
persistence and retention and completion
and the sense of belonging truly
contributes to that and that's what this
initiative is going to do for us having
said all that this is not a cost-free
program so we pursued um a grant um it's
through the the te the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board it's our
third success Grant um and we were
awarded
$250,000 as part of this grant $100,000
of it is being specifically designating
designated for us to join caring campus
and to participate in this initiative so
um what I'm what I'm asking I'm asking
the administration to uh the board to
approve to spend $100,000 from the
Student Success Grant to formally join
over 150 other colleges in participation
of the caring campus
initiative questions
questions I have one perfect so we got
traditional and non-traditional students
here uh will this benefit both
absolutely because what this is going to
do is it's going to um encourage
dialogue it's a Grassroots efforts and
so it's going to encourage dialogue from
the staff and the faculty about what
kind of commitments all of our students
are entitled to what kind of changes and
processes that we need um for me in
looking at it and talking to other
colleges that have gone through it it
has tremendous implications for our
student experience and understanding our
student populations for our marketing
campaigns our messaging our
Communications onboarding training a
faculty and staff hiring a faculty and
staff so absolutely that will fit right
into
it good question
Brenda how will you encourage all of our
staff to participate
okay well the caring campus they have a
very systematic process that they are
going to put us through um and what will
happen is um our coach will work with us
and help us identify the people that
have to be involved in that now the
caring campus they do not they they want
to work with all student facing groups
but they believe every department on our
campus is student facing so that means
police department will participate that
means risk management that means
maintenance that means accounting
certainly my area certainly student
services but a representative will be a
part of all of that not everybody it's
going to be kind of like a train the
trainer mentality um but key people will
be a part of that and be expected to to
to take that back to their departments
and so it's also doing a lot of work I'm
sure we you've heard like this idea that
we have silos and we operate within
silos and the idea is that we break all
that down so our coach will be
instrumental in helping us uh determine
who will be the faculty who will be the
staff and how we make all of that happen
do you know how many how often that your
your train your trainer will be on we're
going to have o over 20 20 meetings with
this person so um across this time it's
a lot it's a it's a very intensive
professional development opportunity so
it's over 20 when you add them up
they're split between faculty and staff
and then the work with um uh leadership
great sounds good
thanks you have
one just you mentioned it's similar to
the pathways um is it uh overlapping
requirements or collaborative
requirements it's a collaborative it it
it doesn't take the place of Pathways it
builds Pathways as Dr Garrett I'm sure
Dr Carter has explained Pathways has
different pillars to it uh and one of
the P pillars is keeping students on
path um as well as removing the barriers
for students this contributes
significantly to that to those pillars
and so where we learned about this
initiative was at Texas path way several
of us sat through several uh meetings
about it we've also learned about it um
through the Aspen Institute as well as
uh interviewing other community colleges
in the state of Texas who've gone
through it so it's kind it it
contributes it does not replace Pathways
though okay one of the reasons for my
questions is that um in the past where
I've been in situations where I have
this initiative here I have this
initiative here I have this data set
that I got to report then I have to
reformat it to meet this data set
reporting requirements and it just
becomes cumbersome and I want to make
sure that our folks have enough time to
do their job in addition to this that's
a great that's a great question I I
don't think that the idea they've done
this at 150 institutions Across the
Nation the idea is not to take away from
anybody's job but actually to enhance it
and to make it better uh so that we
actually serve our students better so I
don't think that's the goal at all for
this program okay well if we don't do
this well we won't have any students to
that will account we would love to be a
model institution in in this area and to
be able and I think the institutions
that participate in this certainly um
move in that direction so it's it's
exciting it's a great opportunity for
us did you have another question it's a
great opportunity uh my only question is
long-term passed two years what is the
cost it there is no cost it's it's a
onetime $100,000 investment um that the
grant is covering for us um and we will
we will sustain the efforts on our owns
there there is no cost it's really
training us to be the best success
practitioners that we can be sounds good
yeah thank you zero cost pardon me zero
cost well there's a c just not from yeah
that's that's the only yeah that's
correct so it's a great
opportunity several years ago while I
was in public school work I was involved
in a similar kind of thing to try and
develop on our camp campus uh a a caring
feeling approach and I discovered some
interesting things I taught next door to
a older retired gentleman who had no
desire to be a touchy feely kind of
teacher he just this is my way or the
highway and right and then I discovered
in this I was part of the the study
group I discovered that there were
students that did not want to be cared
for uh I'm going to be curious to see
how this process works to try and mend
those Broken Bridges or to maybe build
right understand that when we when we
talk about caring we're really talking
about meeting the students where they
are um so yes a component of that can be
the touchy feeling and for the student
that wants to hug could be a part of
that but also it's understanding our
student population and there they have
differences um and caring campus is very
clear and telling us that our our caring
campus and how we bring it to life here
is going to look very different from
other institutions they're going to be
very respectful of our student body and
our culture and what we bring to the
table um and it's going to be built
based on those uh based on those
realities good thanks anyone else one
more comment ever since I've been on the
board and you've been presenting to us
you always bring us things that uh will
help to build relationships with our
students I just I think this is a great
idea I look forward to it and knowing
you I'm sure it's going to be successful
um in the process um just make sure
that we don't have I don't know how many
instructors we have 100 200 whatever
that only five people show up that's I
we have to find a way that everyone Buys
in to the same process no our our
instruction side is involved in this
it's it's I I'm up here presenting it to
you this is a
collaboration um and part the the the
caring camp has been doing this a long
time and they have a process for
selecting The Faculty um and everybody
that makes a commitment um and to be
involved in this um so and like I said
they've had they have a ton of
experience doing this like I said over
150 other institutions um and several
community colleges here in Texas and
they all talk very very very positively
about that experience and Mak Happ
opportunity presents itself um I think
everyone on the board is um interested
in in making this a best opportunity or
best environment for students to learn
so given an opportunity whatever we need
to do to if we need to come and visit
sometime or to um talk to the group uh
one of us will show up Absol to enourage
thank you I we will make sure the coach
knows
that anyone else thank you ma'am
appreciate did I need to vote on
it oh thank you thank you no I want it
now
good job Dean starky Dr Cruz S I
apologize for trying to rush
you hello Board of Trustees and and Dr
Carter um I am here in November 2024 you
uh helped approve the smart program
woohoo and we have been rocking and
rolling ever since then uh so we have
been outlining uh courses we have uh
been doing some advising and uh when
during the outline of our courses we're
trying to enrich three of the courses we
currently already have and we appli for
a grant we were the recipients of the
Texas reskilling and upskilling through
education grant the true grant and uh
I'm before you today to try to purchase
a 3D printer and a tensile machine and
so the idea of this is that we're going
to have our students this is super
exciting we're going to have our
students draft machines 2D on AutoCAD
and then 3D on solid works so it's a a
3D then they'll be able to print it on
the 3D printer and then they'll be able
to test the strength of it and that's
what we need the T machine for so the T
machine will test the strength of the
machine then we'll use our robots to be
able which we already have we'll use our
robots to be able to show them how to
manufacture more how do we copy it pack
it and send it which is of course is all
manufacturing so we're super excited for
it we already already have the robots uh
We've we've actually been dealing with
space too we have acquired space in the
planetarium for what we're going to call
our Smart Lab and so we're going to put
our our robots are already there we're
going to put our 3D printer there we're
going to put our Tena machine there and
so it's going to be the smart lab where
all students will be able to go and uh
and be able to do these projects and so
I'm here to ask for
$4,388 I said that really fast but it's
a part of a grant so I'm just asking to
spend because it's over
50,000 questions I understand it's part
of the grant yes sir I understand grants
come and go yes sir what about our
sustainment cost what is it going to
cost us 5 years from now so with the the
machine the tensile machine itself
unless there is anything that breaks uh
it there's no additional materials that
need to go into it we do have an
insurance for 5 Years From my
understanding that comes with the with
the purchase the uh
a 3D printer now that does come with
materials and what I've done is working
it out by shopping and doing the vendors
they are uh supplying us with an
$188,000 credit for materials uh with
that so we should be good for the next
couple of years and then during that
time we will be looking for more grants
and uh to sustain the program as the
program
grows is it a Plastics only or does it
do the metal it's Plastics only that's
right
the metal ones are super expensive I'll
be back later for
that it's
okay anyone else other question thank
you ma'am thank you Dr you got a AP I
got a
pile just a few just a few um first I'd
like to I'd like to preface the next two
items by saying that uh for the first 18
months in my first 18 months as
Chancellor I I did a pretty deep dive
into our operations some things we were
able to address pretty quickly some
things are ongoing but the whole idea is
continuous Improvement and and and
Improvement in terms of how we serve our
students and run this college uh Student
Success is the North Star thank you very
much for always letting me know that Dr
Garrett um but during that time I've
been able to identify you know some
strengths some some gaps some
opportunities and our team has done a
really good job um in in addressing some
of those issues prior to um prior to
September 1 2023 when I assumed the
office we uh we had a Dr help me Dr Gara
did a secret
shopper exercise on the college and so I
thought that's the perfect it's it was a
nine-page report of opportunities for
Improvement and so we made that the
focus last year and we're wrapping up
some things this year we've made some
really good Headway in how we manage our
uh student accounts our uh our processes
over on the Student Financial side our
website um enrollment all those things
I'm sorry Communications Communications
big one big one so we we took that to
heart um I I gave it to Dr Garrett and
said you know this is our report card I
need you to fix it and so has been
working on that but in a in on a on a
larger scale what I've noticed are two
areas that we really need some support
in and that's
data we need to we need to build a data
infrastructure we have the systems we
have um we have great staff but what we
don't have is an inst let me back up
alcantar is the first
one thank you Mr
Pierce I said he's moving a piece of
paper over here what's he doing alcantar
strategies is the is the first one you
know the governor wants us to build a
world class higher education where
community colleges align with regional
Workforce needs House Bill 8 was the
impetus for that and it's the old
Playbook just won't work you know we're
not we're not funded um by contact hours
time and seats it's performance there
are performance metrics built into house
built eight that require us to be a
little more intentional if you will
about the work that we're doing um what
happened is prior to the implementation
of House Bill 8 many colleges got out in
front of that um and started hiring
Chief strategy officers and you know
others with that type of experience two
of my colleagues I talked to them and I
thought where'd you get the money for
that you know uh because salaries and
benefits you have to pay continuously
right so I I met Mr alcantar and he's
actually been to the college when we did
college credit for Heroes many years ago
you remember that uh we were awarded
that Grant through tww so a lot of times
when you see college credit for Heroes
and it's on other colleges websites we
did that so Mr alcantar was really
familiar with uh Central Texas College
he was once the chairman of the Texas
Workforce Commission and he's very well
known in the state and and does a lot of
work for for various
organizations uh so I asked him I said
would you would you come meet with me uh
because I need to accelerate some work
and I explained to them where we were
and where we needed to be in order to um
in in order to fully Implement House
Bill 8 as it's changing there there are
some changes that are in discussion
right now and so you can see from the
news several other schools have um have
really taken off with House Bill 8 uh
their numbers look good some of them are
building new buildings around programs
Etc um I would like to accelerate our
work not really to catch up but to get
us where I know we need to be and rather
than hire a chief strategy officer
rather than uh bring someone on staff
permanently to help us with that effort
we have a as you know our team shrink a
little bit several months ago
um I believe that a consultant for a
maximum of 12 months and with my 30 my
30-day out clause thank you Miss BS uh
would be very beneficial to the to the
college it would help accelerate the
work that we need to do in order to meet
that skills Gap that Workforce um need
as Governor Abbott continues to bring in
new businesses uh many of these jobs do
not require bachelor's degree they just
require credentials of values but it's
important that we align our work with
industry needs and so it's going to
require Partnerships with not only our
and we have the Partnerships with the
with the school districts but we have to
align the school districts the workforce
and uh business and industry and so he
is he's he does that very well and and
and I welcome the help uh we need the
help uh it's not that we can't get there
but this is this is 12 months or less
versus a couple of years and House Bill
8 has created an extremely competitive
environment it is a it is a specific P
there's some base funding for everyone
um but at the same time those per those
performance outcomes are a big chunk of
our our Appropriations now so I believe
it's in the we have the funding for it
um It lines up with our strategic uh
plan uh I think there are two priorities
that we identified um so I'm just asking
for your consideration in that I believe
this is a much more fiscally
responsible uh approach versus hiring
personnel which I can do I just choose
not
to Dr Carter you have both the alcantar
recommendation and the Trivium
recommendation how much have have has
alcantar worked with trivan no they're
two separate because one one is Mr
alcantar and his company the consultant
he will help us align our work our
efforts our programs um with the uh with
industry needs uh we will also leverage
not only his knowledge and his skills
but his connections I'll just say it his
connections uh to certain industry as
well as uh private funders because we we
want to continue to get funding to do
some of the things that uh Dr that Dean
starky is doing and some of the other
projects that that we have so I have
this I I have this little I have this
little black book full of dreams and
they cost money but they also take time
and so I believe that uh an agreement
with Mr alcantar will help uh accelerate
that he's uh he he knows his way around
Austin he has some pretty good
connections and and as I said I believe
that this is a much more fiscally
responsible route versus hiring someone
and he would be uh he would work with
our leadership team as well as uh some
others as we have different meetings and
uh so that there is buyin you know this
isn't someone coming in to just
completely dictate anything to us we're
going to let him know where we are what
we want done and he is going to help
guide us as he did I I mentioned another
College there and in the write up but um
and he currently uh works with several
of the other schools uh within tax
so questions
anyone okay the next item uh same
situation this is this is something else
that we you know identified uh during
the last 18 months it's the data piece
uh what I what I would like to see and I
believe everyone who's on our team our
Administration I see Mr over there
nodding his head uh we want to we need
to it's not even just a want we need to
move to a um a datadriven decisionmaking
culture uh currently we we don't
necessarily do that unless it's a unless
it's Project Specific the way our system
is set up and this is this is not an
indictment against
anyone it's not that anyone's not doing
their job but the way we are currently
set up is uh if you have access to a
particular reporting tool then you can
uh you can create a report establish the
parameters and pull the numbers well if
you've got five people pulling the same
information you may very well get five
different answers and it's because we
don't have uh a a data infrastructure or
a data culture um our our team has done
an amazing job with what they have they
they I mean I couldn't ask for a better
team but I feel um I believe not I feel
that it is my responsibility to ensure
that they have the resources necessary
to do the work that I'm asking them to
do and so as we look at adopting a data
culture as we look at building a data
infrastructure I believe it's necessary
to bring in um a data services uh
contractor uh Dr r Hines is the CEO of
uh Trivium and uh he has done amazing
work with other institutions that we've
we've talked to and so uh as a matter of
fact when when he hit my radar I asked
him would he come spend the day with us
for
free because I thought it was important
that this not be a a a decision because
the the majority of the work would be
performed by the staff I felt like it
was necessary for the staff to have an
opportunity to engage with him and so we
provided some data he created a Data
Book for us some of which we used to in
our response to the NCI
project um and he spent an entire day we
had a plinary session and then we had
breakout groups and the feedback was
extremely positive I had several folks
ask me are we going to hire him when are
we going to hire him and so what I'm
really excited about with regard to uh
this particular agreement is there are
clear deliverables and I outlined that
um I outlined those in the and that
communication but I'm really excited for
Dr Garrett's folks Dr Garrett has uh
Department institutional Effectiveness
led by Dr Carrie Rose um we don't have
an IR department but we have a group of
folks that with the right resources and
training can get there and I feel like
it's um I know it's our responsibility
to make sure she has that I think during
the workshop we had to pull the
microphone away from Dr car Rose if you
can believe that You' probably not heard
her say two words but um she was highly
engaged uh during the workshop had tons
of questions and I I know that she's one
that would really appreciate the
additional support uh we believe that um
maybe 12 months uh but some schools have
taken longer so the original agreement
was for 18 months I said one year and a
six-month option if we need to so um
again we do have the funding this lines
up with our strategic
priorities um it supports continuous
Improvement but more importantly it
supports our
students anybody
questions yes it sounds a lot like the
efficiencies organizations that we're
seeing pop up and I'll just leave it
there is there an expectation that uh
we'll have a return on investment
greater than the cost yes now let me say
about the efficiencies that
organizations that you're seeing we had
our Workshop before that yes
yes you know as a a business owner and
former military Guy this is something I
would always go through myself how can I
do it better faster smarter less
expensive and and then make the
adjustments as we go so anytime we you
know throw some uh outlay of funds we
want to make sure that the uh return on
that is at least as much as what we're
expending so AB absolutely so what this
will allow us to do is is when we think
about House Bill 8 and the various
performance metrics we what happens is
they provide us with our own data that
we provide to to them in whatever format
um we can look
at how we were funded for associate
degrees let's just let's choose that
particular credential and if we're we
look for those areas we were less I
think it was we we are funding for the
next bium I think was less than the
previous year but so what we can do is
we can take the data from those um what
we need to be able to do is take the
data from those uh associate degrees
drill down in in in within the programs
within the uh classes to figure out
what's going on what happened um one of
the examples that was uh given to us or
to me as I was um researching this is
you'll be able to
look at a a a chart and let's say you
see a decline in enrollment in the
science classes and so initially you'll
think oh well we've got to recruit more
students but really you want to look
behind that data point to see what's
going on because the students behind
there's a student behind every data
point so when you when the when the
college drilled down further they
noticed that the barrier to those
science classes was actually the
prerequisites okay
so they were able to further drill down
into the prerequisites to find out
what's going on there and so this is
data that we'd be able to look at real
time we wouldn't be looking at it you
know Mrs Coley always mentions this you
know looking at
something you know a year too late
because then it is too late and so what
we're talking about is standing up a
data infrastructure that allows our
staff to to not only extract the data
but to analyze the data interpret the
data and then we make some serious
decisions about the next steps it will
also allow us to provide you with
dashboards you don't have to wait um
every month uh to to have Dr Garrett
because she didn't know that was her
assignment now every month two months in
a row makes it every month right so you
know to come forward and uh provide you
with an update we get dashboards you
know we we we get those implemented you
can go in yourselves to see exactly
what's happening with enrollments you
know how many students are taking this
you know 6 hours or or more those kinds
of things and so uh and also our
community we'll be able to put some of
that on our website and our community
will be able to see it um it's a it it
also
um it will streamline some of the work
and uh it's a serious gap for us not
having uh a solid data infrastructure
rure while we also adopt the data
culture now I'm going to throw something
in there okay um Predictive Analytics
through AI is that something that could
be integrated with this hey I'm I'm I'm
sure if we're willing to
pay yes and Predictive Analytics is a
part of it uh Predictive Analytics um
that way you can see the train before it
hit you right exactly and so that that
is a poor part of it we uh we want to
move into more forecasting uh as it
relates to to our budget uh and to do
some things that we've not traditionally
done um but as I've been saying and and
I think my team is tired of hearing
it um progress without change is
impossible and we have to change our
Playbook and how we're doing things now
that's not obviously that's not an
original quote but I got a question um
so U would this uh give us better
forecasting on like I said student in a
60 hour course for graduation with
Associates if it's taking them 66 to 72
hours to graduate with that 6 degree and
how long that average student actually
stays at CTC to achieve that degree
Absolut because with like house bill8
it's graduation rates and stuff
absolutely and U like if you got a
student four years to get a two-year
degree we're waiting that much much
longer to get fully funded on it and and
so um to your point what this will allow
us to do will
accelerate in in terms of uh identifying
what the issue is and quickly addressing
it and making adjustments um it'll make
it that much easier for us to Pivot
where we need to and to address student
needs real
time you sold it good anyone else
thank
you any recommendations for topics for
upcoming agenda items M
coie nothing more than I just
did yes I've got one um going back to Dr
Garrett's briefing sa CC uh we
affirmation process in
our documents that the board
approves we do one annually Finance
counting so that's that's one in our
ticket right there I would like to see
on our
agenda the review of board documents at
least quarterly and through a cycle of
Eur we can do all of them or we can take
one one meeting and do all one time but
I I think if we integrate them in our
process we'll get through our 10 or 12
board documents that we're responsible
for at least every three years I think
that would satisfy ta COC and get us off
the hook there good idea that's my
recommendation sounds good good
idea J I'm
good um just a concern that I got hit
with and I just wanted to make the Chan
aware of it uh the V the VA counselors
that are counseling our students
they're not up to date on the on on
certain like the 35 and the 36 and the
31 they need to be more and which is
causing them to go which having our
students to go back and forth trying to
get make sure that they're that the
classes that they're registered for are
qualified that they're qualified to take
and there could be a little bit more
clarification on it's not us but it's uh
the VA part if we could talk to them and
see if they can get their act together
on the counseling part especially the VA
counselors
absolutely thank you
sir the uh board meeting schedule for
next Tuesday the 25th of February and
then a workshop in March on the 11th uh
I didn't look at the calendar when I saw
that note is there a reason why it's not
third and fourth spring break spring
break okay for those who are
traveling can you mention about the
luncheon next week the luncheon on the
25th
um can I say it I just did didn't I no
the 25th the lunch will be in the oh
with the military relations counsel okay
you got that to lunch for the 25th when
we meet we won't have our work our lunch
in a regular
spot the lunch will be in the D the
ballroom yes okay yeah thank you
military relations Council right and the
board meeting in March will be the 2 and
the fourth Tuesday
yes what else for the good of of the
college well since we don't vote we can
return the
education my name
i s that for the external access to
without